Best practices for cpu and memory management (#392)
okteto/docs: src/content/cloud/container-resources.mdx

---

> title: Container Resources

Reviewer: I think the title need some SEO optimization. I don't see my self searching for this when my environment is crashing because of memory. 

Also, why container vs 'dev environments' or something else? We don't use containers in any other element of the sidebar.

Author: Do you have a suggestion? This link can be also linked from the app is the `requests` are being exhausted in your dev environment

description: Optimizing Container Resource Allocation for Efficient Development Environments
sidebar_label: Container Resources
id: container-resources
---

import Image from '@theme/Image';

Okteto leverages the concept of Kubernetes resources to decide on which node to place each container.
When you specify a resource `limit` for a container, Okteto enforces those limits so that the running container is not allowed to use more of that resource than the limit you set.

> Okteto also reserves at least the `request` amount of that system resources specifically for that container to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Okteto also reserves at least the `request` amount of that system's resources specifically for that container to use.
```

> Okteto also reserves at least the `request` amount of that system resources specifically for that container to use.

Reviewer: I thought we were not doing this, and instead applying a ratio to the limit no? e.g  In cloud we don't let people request 4CPUs right?

Author: We only apply the ratio limit in Cloud, not in other environments. I will mention that

Follow [this link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) to know more about how Kubernetes resources work.

## Best Practices

Okteto monitors the CPU and Memory usage of your development environments to balance containers across all the nodes in the cluster.
However, it's not capable of evicting containers when a node becomes overloaded.

> To avoid this situation, it's strongly recommended that you configure your CPU and Memory `requests` to align with your container's actual resource utilization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To avoid this situation, it's strongly recommended that you configure your CPU and Memory `requests` to align with your container's actual resource utilization.
```

By doing so, you ensure that your containers always have sufficient resources available for optimal development speed.

## Resource Consumption Warnings

The Okteto UI shows warnings to assist you in setting the right resources for your development environments.

> If a development environment is utilizing over 50% of its CPU or Memory requests, you'll receive a yellow warning:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a development environment is utilizing over 50% of its CPU or Memory requests, the Okteto UI will show a yellow warning:
```

Modifying this copy to make it about what the UI shows vs the customer "receiving" a warning. Small change that sounds softer to me 😄

> <p align="center"><Image src="/docs/cloud/images/container-resources-yellow.png" alt="container resources yellow warning" width="650" /></p>

Reviewer 2: @pchico83 The images appear to be the same and neither seems to be showing yellow or red warnings

If it's using more than 100% of its CPU and Memory requests, you'll receive a red warning:

> <p align="center"><Image src="/docs/cloud/images/container-resources-red.png" alt="container resources red warning" width="650" /></p>

Author: Yes, I still need to make the final images

## Access your Metrics with kubectl

> If you require more detailed data on your container resource consumption, you can use the `kubectl top pods` command.

Reviewer 2: @pchico83 This is off-topic, but does this command become obsolete when we eventually add our own data infrastructure for customers to consume information exactly like this?

Author: Not sure. This is accessible by developers. I think the developer insights feature is more targeted to admins

In order to use `kubectl top pods`, follow these steps:

- [Install](getting-started/#installing-okteto-cli) the Okteto CLI
- Configure your Okteto context with `okteto ctx`
- Download your kubectl credentials with `okteto kubeconfig`

And run `kubectl top pods` to access your container's metrics:

```console
$ kubectl top pod
```

```
NAME                        CPU(cores)   MEMORY(bytes)
api-7cc77bcdcb-pm72j        89m          66Mi
frontend-78b8b698cf-5wb5p   1m           2Mi
mongodb-0                   5m           160Mi
```

## Configure your Development Environment Resources

There are three differenct ways to configure the container resources for your development environments:

- [Kubernetes manifest](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
- [Docker Compose](/reference/compose/#resources-object-optional)

> - [Okteto Manifest](/reference/manifest/#resources-object-optional)

Reviewer: can we add small samples on this doc? (at least for the okteto way?). 

Also, giving someone three ways of doing something without clarifying which is the recommended way makes it confusing (in my opinion). Could we add a single recommendation (the manifest) and then maybe, as a subsection, say something like "if this is not ideal, then you can also do it at X or Y"?

Author: The recommendation is to define requests in both, the okteto manifest, and your deployment manifests (either kubernetes or docker compose). I can add samples, but I would mention the three places
